---
title: "I Learned to Program in MUD"
kind: article
created_at: "2009-07-22 02:00:00 +0000"
---

If you have never played a MUD before, here's a screenshot:

    <20hp 100m 62mv> recall
    The Temple Of Midgaard
    You are in the southern end of the temple hall in the Temple of Midgaard.
    The temple has been constructed from giant marble blocks, eternal in
    appearance, and most of the walls are covered by ancient wall paintings
    picturing Gods, Giants and peasants.
       Large steps lead down through the grand temple gate, descending the huge
    mound upon which the temple is built and ends on the temple square below.
       Equally large steps lead UP through a small door into the ENTRANCE to MUD
    SCHOOL.  (type 'up' to go to MUD SCHOOL.)  A small plaque is on this wall.
    (White Aura) The executioner is here polishing his blade.

    <20hp 100m 31mv>

MUDs were what we were addicted to before World of Warcraft.  They were
text-based role-playing-games. TBRPGs? MUDs were the alpha and the omega, and
they consumed your life.  They had one goal - to level up and get better gear.
Why?  To be the biggest, baddest dude in your particular MUD. Oh, and to slay
dragons.

There wasn't just one MUD.  The versions that I played, based on the Diku/Merc
games, were open-source.  Anyone in the world could download it and start their
own.  What made each one individual and special was the effort that the
programmer, usually called the imp (short for implementor), put into the game.
The imp would then find some creative people to design areas to expand the game
world.  In the early days of the mid-90s, a bit of work and a bit of creativity
could garner you a small playerbase to call your own.

The MUD that I played religiously was MeatMUD. It was the first one I played,
and the only MUD I ever truly loved. After playing for a year or so, a friend
on the game indicated that it was possible to start your own. I was seriously
taken aback by this thought. I could be the imp?! Wow! He set me up an account
on his SunOS server and showed me how to download and compile a version of
Merc.

I was the boss of the game! I could be PAST MAX LEVEL! I was IMMORTAL! This was
AMAZING!

Ok, so just having unlimited power got boring quickly.  I wanted to modify this
game, and make it my own.  I started to learn C, the lingua franca of
programming languages. My life would never be the same.

I really can't recall how long it was between my early tinkerings on that SunOS
server and having a successful playerbase. In my head it seems overnight, but I
know that was not the case in reality. My MUD, Hall of the Damned, at its
height had 10-20 players connected on average. That was pretty darn successful
for a scrub teenager who barely knew how to program!

I kept that game running for a couple of years before moving on. It was a
fantastic experience that has given me the life I have today. I hear rumor that
there's still a few MUDs out there today. If you're ever curious to see what
online gaming looked like in the early days of the internet, you might check
one out.
