---
title: "Running MercMUD 2.1 in 2009"
kind: article
created_at: "2009-07-24 02:00:00 +0000"
---

I've been getting nostalgic for my days as a MUD implementor. I decided to grab
a copy of one of the old codebases I favored and see about running it on my
server. I settled on Merc 2.1, always one of my favorite starting blocks. It
had decent code, for the time, and it's not packed with features. In this case,
I consider small and easy to understand a considerable advatange.

Start by unpacking the tarball.  I found a download for it at MudBytes, a
website that made me giddy when I found it.

    [alexmchale@bullfrog ~/src]$ tar xzvf merc2-1.tar.gz
    Merc21/
    Merc21/README
    Merc21/area/
    Merc21/area/area.lst
    ...
    Merc21/src/save.c
    Merc21/src/special.c
    Merc21/src/update.c
    ftp_game.org
    [alexmchale@bullfrog ~/src]$

Next, try to make it!

    [alexmchale@bullfrog ~/src/Merc21/src]$ make
    gcc -c -O -Wall   act_comm.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   act_info.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   act_move.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   act_obj.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   act_wiz.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   comm.c
    comm.c:151: error: conflicting types for 'accept'
    /usr/include/sys/socket.h:214: note: previous declaration of 'accept' was here
    comm.c:152: error: conflicting types for 'bind'
    /usr/include/sys/socket.h:115: note: previous declaration of 'bind' was here
    comm.c:154: error: conflicting types for 'getpeername'
    /usr/include/sys/socket.h:133: note: previous declaration of 'getpeername' was here
    comm.c:155: error: conflicting types for 'getsockname'
    /usr/include/sys/socket.h:119: note: previous declaration of 'getsockname' was here
    make: *** [comm.o] Error 1
    [alexmchale@bullfrog ~/src/Merc21/src]$

Err, ok.  So that didn't go quite as planned.  Digging deeper, it turns out I
need to remove most of the prototypes in comm.c that were from another age.  I
also have to add an -lcrypt flag to the Makefile, add unistd.h as an include in
comm.c and changed a variable from int to socklen_t.  No big deal.

    [alexmchale@bullfrog ~/src/Merc21/src]$ rm *.o
    [alexmchale@bullfrog ~/src/Merc21/src]$ make
    gcc -c -O -Wall   act_comm.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   act_info.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   act_move.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   act_obj.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   act_wiz.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   comm.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   const.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   db.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   fight.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   handler.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   interp.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   magic.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   save.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   special.c
    gcc -c -O -Wall   update.c
    rm -f merc
    gcc -O -lcrypt  -o merc act_comm.o act_info.o act_move.o act_obj.o act_wiz.o comm.o const.o db.o fight.o handler.o interp.o magic.o save.o special.o update.o
    [alexmchale@bullfrog ~/src/Merc21/src]$

There we go!  Now let's fire her up.

    [alexmchale@bullfrog ~/src/Merc21/area]$ ../src/merc 9001
    Wed Jul 22 18:49:24 2009 :: Merc is ready to rock on port 9001.

AWESOME! ... but can we connect?

    [alexmchale@bullfrog ~]$ telnet localhost 9001
    Trying 127.0.0.1...
    Connected to localhost.
    Escape character is '^]'.

                        M          E          R          C

        Diku Mud was created by Hans Henrik St{rfeldt, Katja Nyboe,
          Tom Madsen, Michael Seifert, and Sebastian Hammer.

                        D          I          K          U

        Thanks to all the people who have released their Mud code, worlds,
          ideas, and bug fixes.  'If I have seen far it is because I have
          stood on the shoulders of giants.'  -- Isaac Newton

                                   M          U          D

        01 Aug 1993    Merc 2.1    Furey, Hatchet, Kahn

    By what name do you wish to be known?

It's at this point I'm nearly giggling like a little kid.

That wasn't so hard! Next time, we'll do some implementin'!
