---
title: "Second Level? phsaw"
kind: article
created_at: "2009-08-02 02:00:00 +0000"
---

So the first thing I noticed upon connecting to my copy of Merc was that you
couldn't save if you were level.  It makes sense in a real MUD. You don't want
every ninny who connects for 20 seconds to fill a pfile. Make them play a
little til they can take up space. That's not what I'm doing, though, so I want
to be able to save at level 1.

Let's take that requirement out. Start by finding where the message is
generated. If we're lucky, that's where saving is done too.

    [alexmchale@bullfrog ~/src/Merc21/src]$ grep "second level" *.c
    act_comm.c:     send_to_char( "You must be at least second level to save.\n\r", ch );

Excellent, only one spot. Open up your friendly neighborhood editor for act_comm.c and find that line.

    void do_save( CHAR_DATA *ch, char *argument )
    {
        if ( IS_NPC(ch) )
            return;

        if ( ch->level < 2 )
        {
            send_to_char( "You must be at least second level to save.\n\r", ch );
            return;
        }

        save_char_obj( ch );
        send_to_char( "Ok.\n\r", ch );
        return;
    }

I love this code base. It's just so darn easy to understand. This is the
command "save" that saves your character, it's the standard format for all
player commands. It takes the character calling the command as the first
parameter and all passed arguments to the command as the second. Now let's get
rid of that level check so that anyone can save! Now we have:

    void do_save( CHAR_DATA *ch, char *argument )
    {
        if ( IS_NPC(ch) )
            return;

        save_char_obj( ch );
        send_to_char( "Ok.\n\r", ch );
        return;
    }

Yay! Save, quit, and recompile.

    [alexmchale@bullfrog ~/src/Merc21/src]$ make
    gcc -c -O -Wall   act_comm.c
    rm -f merc
    gcc -O -lcrypt  -o merc act_comm.o act_info.o act_move.o act_obj.o act_wiz.o comm.o const.o db.o fight.o handler.o interp.o magic.o save.o special.o update.o
    [alexmchale@bullfrog ~/src/Merc21/src]$

Grins all around. Time to test it out!

    [alexmchale@bullfrog ~/src/Merc21/area]$ ../src/merc 9001
    Wed Jul 22 19:26:36 2009 :: Merc is ready to rock on port 9001.

Hey, we didn't segfault immediately.  That's a good first step!

    <20hp 100m 100mv> score
    You are Daimun the Pilferer, level 1, 17 years old (0 hours).
    You have 20/20 hit, 100/100 mana, 100/100 movement, 21 practices.
    You are carrying 4/28 items with weight 16/140 kg.
    Str: 13  Int: 13  Wis: 13  Dex: 16  Con: 13.
    You have scored 1000 exp, and have 0 gold coins.
    Autoexit: no.  Autoloot: no.  Autosac: no.
    Wimpy set to 0 hit points.
    You are standing.
    You are wearing clothes.
    You are neutral.

    <20hp 100m 100mv> save
    Ok.

    <20hp 100m 100mv>

Woot!  We successfully made and tested our first change.  Take 5.  See you next time.

P.S. I have posted the code so far on my github as merc-mud.
