---
title: "The DMV has Nothing on Xbox Live"
kind: article
created_at: "2009-09-15 02:00:00 +0000"
---

As of now I can confirm that of any corporation I have interacted with,
Microsoft Xbox Live has the absolute worst customer service.  If it weren't
for my wife, I would have devolved to simply spewing profanities at them
long ago.

How did I arrive at this foul-language-inducing state of mind?  Here we go ...

Sometime nearly two months ago, my Xbox Live service was coming up for renewal.
When Crystal and I married, we switched over our bank account and credit card
numbers.  Thus, the card that I used to register my Live service in
bachelorhood was rejected when they tried to auto-renew.  I received an email
informing me of that.

"Hey," I thought, "I think I saw that Amazon had Xbox Live game codes on sale,
slightly cheaper than Microsoft sells the service.  I think I'll do that!"
So I purchase the code, plug it in, and everything is hunky-dory!

The End.

Or ... so I thought.  One month after that day, our Live account was
disconnected.  It said the account was suspended for failure to pay.  That was
on August 29th.

*tap tap tap* I call up Kwik-E-Mart - ahem ahem, I mean Microsoft Xbox Live
Customer Service.

After about 30 minutes of holding and explaining the problem to Felicity, I get
the answer.  They had billed me for the next year's service - and they can't
take it back.  It doesn't matter that I have paid them via an alternate means.
Their computer is telling them that I owe them $50, and the account will be
locked until that is resolved.

Awesome.

I explain to them that I have indeed already paid them - with the code that I
purchased from an authorized reseller.  They retort saying that while that code
was valid, they had already billed me for $50 and I must pay that.  It doesn't
matter to them that they are effectively holding the money I paid them via
Amazon hostage.

Around and around we go.

My more level-headed wife steps in and takes over.  She manages to get someone
else on the phone that is willing to at least try to help us.  Lowell, the
floor manager, tells us that he will look into fixing the problem.  He tells us
that he or someone else will call us back later that day, and that it should be
fixed in 3-5 days.

Excellent!  Thank you Lowell!

Of course, he never calls.  A week later, we never heard anything.

We call back, of course have to explain the entire situation again, and are
informed that we owe a balance of $50.  After more back and forth, we get
Angela on the phone, who informs us that Lowell should not have told us 5 days.
It would be more like 10 days until we hear something.

Oooook.

Four days later, we call back.  More explaining.  More being told that if we'd
just pay our account, this would be fixed.  More telling them that we have paid
our account.  Late into this call, Crystal gets Carlo on the phone.  He
indicates to us that our issue has been forwarded to a different department.

"Would you forward me to someone in that department, please?" Crystal requests.

"Oh no," he replies, as though she'd asked a really dumb question, "they don't
take telephone calls over there."

Did you ever see Minority Report, with the future seers that live their lives
in a pool of water?  That's what I'm envisioning it's like in this special
department.  An underground bunker, deep in the heart of India, with special
business processors that can't be bothered to talk to mere mortals.

We're told that on September 10th, we would receive a call between 5p-9pm
central time.  That day passes without that phone call.

Last night, Crystal and I are settling in to finish the season 5 finale of Lost
when it dawns on me - hey, we never got that call we were supposed to get!
Crystal dials up her old friends at Microsoft Xbox Live Customer Service.

Mark says he can't help us, sends us to Gerald.  Gerald says he can't help us,
sends us to Leo.  Leo, oh Leo.  Leo says that he can't give us any
estimate on when "Upper Management" will be done processing our claim.  He
tells us he can give us a 1-month code to enter into the Xbox to get us
going.  He says that we'll definitely have our replacement account active
by the time that code is expired.

Will it be so?  Time will tell.  One thing is certain.  I'm not reactivating
next year!

P.S.  We have the entire record stored in SwankDB - every call, summary of the
conversation, names, and reference numbers.
